Linux OS:

What's Operating System? Combination of OS and Processor is required for any computer. required to manage hardware and software. System software that acts like a mediator between enduser and machine.

User communicates with computer using OS. Without OS we cannot run or use any machine. Examples of OS : Linux, Windows, MacOS, Android, iOS

Windows is more friendly and less costly than MacOS. GUI (Graphical User Interface). Single user based OS. Less security feature (thats why Windows OS computers require anti-virus). Windows is more preferred for personal use.  

if you want to use Windows OS for server computer / application deployment, Windows is not recommended.


Linux OS: Linus Torvalds -> Unix OS Challenges so he came up with Minux OS, Linux = Minux + Linus. It is free + Open source. 
	Provides high security
	Highly recommended for App/Project operation
	CLI based OS (Command line interface)

To setup infrastructure of software projects -> Linux operating system is used

Red Hat Linux, Amazon Linux, Ubuntu Linux, Susse Linux, Fedora Linux... 200+ Linux -> 

that's where Linux distribution / flavors come into picture -> Why distribution? Linus made Linux made free and Open source. Every large corporations downloaded the code and made their changes based on their needs then they released into market. In this course, we are going to explore Amazon Linux, Ubuntu Linux, RedHat Linux 

Windows OS machine -> SSH protocol (MobaXterm,Putty) -> AWS cloud Linux EC2

-> Create AWS free-tier account
-> Log into AWS cloud account
-> Create Linux virtual machine using AWS EC2 instance

Linux file system:

In Linux, everything doesn't matter it's a folder etc, it is seen as a file. 
	-> File that starts with '-' hyphen : ordinary file not a special file
	-> File starts with 'd': Folder (Directory file)
	-> Starts with 'l': Link file or shortcut file

pwd -> present working directory -> Pwd, cd .. to go back one level, cd ec2-user to go back into folder

ls for contents in directory

to create a Directory file: mkdir devops

multiple directories: mkdir udemy alien

Delete a folder: rmdir alien

to change directory: cd <dir-name>

to come out of directory: cd ..

create a normal file: touch alien.txt

delete a file: rm alien.txt

touch a1.txt a2.txt a3.txt

ls -l : it will list in alphabetical incremental order

ls -lr : alphabetical reverse order

ls -lt : in latest order

ls -ltr : in the order of creation, oldest file first












